.TH gl_enablepageflipping 3 "2 Aug 1997" "Svgalib (>= 1.2.11)" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
gl_enablepageflipping \- enables automatic page flipping

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <vgagl.h>

.BI "int gl_enablepageflipping(GraphicsContext *" gc );

.SH DESCRIPTION
Enable page flipping or triple buffering in
.BR gl_copyscreen (3)
if the physical context
.I gc
can do it.

Returns 3 if triple
buffering will be used, 2 for page flipping, 0 if page
flipping is not possible (due to video memory/mode
limitations).

When pageflipping is enabled, the
.BR gl_screenoffset (3)
is ignored in
.BR gl_copyscreen (3).

The idea is that you draw your picture in
.I gc
and copy it to the screen by consecutive
.BR gl_copyscreen (3)
calls. Each of these will choose a free buffer in the screen and
adjust the display start accourdingly.

The current context must by the VGA when
.BR gl_copyscreen (3)
is called in this situation.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR svgalib.conf (5),
.BR threedkit (7),
.BR testgl (1),
.BR plane (1),
.BR wrapdemo (1),
.BR gl_copybox (3),
.BR gl_copyboxfromcontext (3),
.BR gl_copyboxtocontext (3),
.BR gl_copyscreen (3),
.BR gl_getbox (3),
.BR gl_putbox (3),
.BR gl_setcontext (3),
.BR gl_setcontextheight (3),
.BR gl_setcontextvga (3),
.BR gl_setcontextvgavirtual (3),
.BR gl_setcontextvirtual (3),
.BR gl_setcontextwidth (3).

.SH AUTHOR

This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. The
exact source of the referenced demo as well as of the original documentation is
unknown.

It is very likely that both are at least to some extent are due to
Harm Hanemaayer <H.Hanemaayer@inter.nl.net>.

Occasionally this might be wrong. I hereby
asked to be excused by the original author and will happily accept any additions or corrections
to this first version of the svgalib manual.
