.TH gl_getcontext 3 "2 Aug 1997" "Svgalib (>= 1.2.11)" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
gl_getcontext, currentcontext \- get the current graphics contents.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <vgagl.h>

.BI "void gl_getcontext(GraphicsContext *" gc );

.BI "extern GraphicsContext " currentcontext ;
/* this is already in vgagl.h */

.SH DESCRIPTION
Save the current context in the structure variable
.IR gc .

You can also get the current context from the global
variable
.IR currentcontext ;

However, simply access single elements in this structure
with the macros given in
.BR vgagl (7)
but do not copy
.I currentcontext
in another structure. This is because the size of the structure
might change and your program does not know it when it will be
linked dynamically to future svgalib versions.

Instead use
.BR gl_allocatecontext (3)
to allocate such a structure, fill it with
.B gl_getcontext
and release it with
.BR free (3)
after usage.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR svgalib.conf (5),
.BR threedkit (7),
.BR testgl (1),
.BR plane (1),
.BR wrapdemo (1),
.BR gl_allocatecontext (3),
.BR gl_copyboxfromcontext (3),
.BR gl_copyboxtocontext (3),
.BR gl_freecontext (3),
.BR gl_setcontext (3),
.BR gl_setcontextheight (3),
.BR gl_setcontextvga (3),
.BR gl_setcontextvgavirtual (3),
.BR gl_setcontextvirtual (3),
.BR gl_setcontextwidth (3).

.SH AUTHOR

This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. The
exact source of the referenced demo as well as of the original documentation is
unknown.

It is very likely that both are at least to some extent are due to
Harm Hanemaayer <H.Hanemaayer@inter.nl.net>.

Occasionally this might be wrong. I hereby
asked to be excused by the original author and will happily accept any additions or corrections
to this first version of the svgalib manual.
