.TH gl_line 3 "21 Aug 1999" "Svgalib (>= 1.2.11)" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
gl_line \- draw a line

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <vgagl.h>

.BI "void gl_line(int " x1 ", int " y1 ", int " x2 ", int " y2 ", int " c );

.SH DESCRIPTION
Draw a line from point
.RI ( x1 ", " y1 )
to
.RI ( x2 ", " y2 )
inclusively in color
.IR c .

You should not assume that the same drawing trajectory is used when you exchange start and
end points.

To use this program one first sets up a mode with a regular
vga_setmode call and vga_setpage(0), with possibly a
vga_setlinearaddressing
call.  Then a call to gl_setcontextvga(mode) is made.  This makes the
information about the mode available to gl_line.

The pixels are placed directly into video memory using inline coded
commands.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR svgalib.conf (5),
.BR threedkit (7),
.BR testgl (1),
.BR plane (1),
.BR wrapdemo (1),
.BR gl_circle (3),
.BR gl_clearscreen (3),
.BR gl_hline (3),
.BR gl_setpixel (3),
.BR gl_setpixelrgb (3),
.BR gl_setcontextvga (3).

.SH AUTHOR

This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. The
exact source of the referenced demo as well as of the original documentation is
unknown. This page was modified by Don Secrest <secrest@uiuc.edu>.

It is very likely that both are at least to some extent are due to
Harm Hanemaayer <H.Hanemaayer@inter.nl.net>.

Occasionally this might be wrong. I hereby
asked to be excused by the original author and will happily accept any additions or corrections
to this first version of the svgalib manual.
