.TH gl_printf 3 "22 Feb 1997" "Svgalib 1.3.0" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
gl_printf \- write formatted output in graphic mode

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <vgagl.h>

.BI "int gl_printf(int " x ", int " y ", const char *" fmt ", ...);"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gl_printf
writes, like
.B printf(3) 
a formatted string to position
.RI ( x ", " y )
using the currently selected font. If one or both of 
.IR x " and " y
is negative, the text printing continues at the last position. The
special characters
.BR \eb ", " \er ", "
.BR \en ", " \ea ", "
.BR \et " and " \ev
have the usual effects.

Printing wraps at the screen borders. Nevertheless, behaviour is undefined
if not a single characters fits on the screen or if the initial position
is outside the screen.

The kind of text draw operation is set with
.BR gl_setwritemode (3).

.B BEWARE!
Prior to the of use of
.BR gl_printf (3)
you must set a font.

A good default initialization sequence is:

.B    gl_setfont(8, 8, gl_font8x8);
.br
.B    gl_setwritemode(FONT_COMPRESSED + WRITEMODE_OVERWRITE);
.br
.B    gl_setfontcolors(0, vga_white());
.br

.SH RETURN VALUE
The number of characters printed.

.SH BUGS
For compatibility reasons this function is not contained in a.out
libraries.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR printf (3),
.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR gl_colorfont (3),
.BR gl_expandfont (3),
.BR gl_font8x8 (3),
.BR gl_setfont (3),
.BR gl_setfontcolors (3),
.BR gl_setwritemode (3),
.BR gl_write (3),
.BR gl_writechar (3),
.BR printftest (6).

.SH AUTHOR

This function and manual page was written by Trek <trek00@freenet.hut.fi>
<trek@mediaservice.net>.
