.TH gl_setcontextvga 3 "21 Aug 1999" "Svgalib (>= 1.2.11)" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
gl_setcontextvga \- set the context to the physical screen

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <vgagl.h>

.BI "int gl_setcontextvga(int " mode );

.SH DESCRIPTION
Set the graphics context to the physical screen of a
vga mode (as defined in
.BR vga_setmode (3)).
The mode must be set with
.BR vga_setmode (3)
prior to using any of the drawing functions.
.B vgagl
does not take care of that.

The function returns 0 for success and non-zero if the mode is not supported by the
hardware.

The only thing you can do with a planar (mode X-like)
256 color mode is aligned
.BR gl_putbox ,
and use it as a target for
.BR gl_copyscreen .

In all of the svga modes this program makes a description of the vga
mode available to the vgagl functions.  The 256 color svgamodes are
handled properly by this program.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR svgalib.conf (5),
.BR threedkit (7),
.BR testgl (1),
.BR currentcontext (3),
.BR gl_allocatecontext (3),
.BR gl_copyboxfromcontext (3),
.BR gl_copyboxtocontext (3),
.BR gl_copyscreen (3),
.BR gl_freecontext (3),
.BR gl_line (3),
.BR gl_getcontext (3),
.BR gl_setcontext (3),
.BR gl_setcontextheight (3),
.BR gl_setcontextvgavirtual (3),
.BR gl_setcontextvirtual (3),
.BR gl_setcontextwidth (3).

.SH AUTHOR

This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. The
exact source of the referenced demo as well as of the original documentation is
unknown.  This page was modified by Don Secrest <secrest@uiuc.edu>.

It is very likely that both are at least to some extent are due to
Harm Hanemaayer <H.Hanemaayer@inter.nl.net>.

Occasionally this might be wrong. I hereby
asked to be excused by the original author and will happily accept any additions or corrections
to this first version of the svgalib manual.
