.TH gl_striangle 3 "2 Aug 1997" "Svgalib (>= 1.2.11)" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
gl_striangle \- draw a solid colored triangle

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <triangle.h>

.BI "void gl_striangle(int " x0 ", int " y0 ", int " x1 ", int " y1
.BI ", int "x2 ", int " y2 ", int " color ", int " bf );

.SH DESCRIPTION
Draws a non-interpolated (solid) triangle between the three points 0, 1 and 2
with the color
.IR color .

The
.I bf
value is used to tell the routine not to draw
the triangle if it is facing the other way.
.I bf
tells
which way the triangle should be facing to be drawn.
since you will more than likely require both
combinations.

.IB bf " = 0"
disables drawing when the points are arranged clockwise,
.IB bf " = 1"
disables drawing when the points are arranged counter clockwise.
.IB bf " = -1"
will probably always draw the triangle.

Beware, these functions are not a direct part of the svgalib library.
Instead their source is part of svgalib and can be found in the
.I threeDkit/
subdirectory of the original svgalib distribution. However, it is not
installed in the system by default, s.t. it is unclear where you can find it
if your svgalib was installed by some
linux distribution.

In case of any such problem, simply get an svgalib distribution from the net. Yo
don't need to install it. Just
.B make
in the
.I threeDkit/
subdirectory. As of this writing,
.I svgalib-1.2.12.tar.gz
is the latest version and can be retrieved by ftp from
.IR "sunsite.unc.edu" " at " "/pub/Linux/libs/graphics"
and
.IR "tsx-11.mit.edu" " at " "/pub/linux/sources/libs"
which will most probably be mirrored by a site close to you.

The functions are defined in the
.IR tri.o " and " triangl.o
files (or their resp. sources) which you must link to your program.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR svgalib (7),
.BR threedkit (7),
.BR gl_swtriangle (3),
.BR gl_triangle (3),
.BR gl_trigetcolorlookup (3),
.BR gl_trisetcolorlookup (3),
.BR gl_trisetdrawpoint (3),
.BR gl_wtriangle (3),
.BR plane (6),
.BR wrapdemo (6).

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. The
demos, the initial documentation and the whole threedkit stuff was done by
Paul Sheer <psheer@icon.co.za>.

Paper mail:
.RS
Paul Sheer
.br
P O BOX 890507
.br
Lyndhurst
.br
Johannesburg 2106
.br
South Africa
.RE

Donations (by check or postal order) will be appreciated and will encourage
further development of this software. However this is strictly on a voluntary
basis where this software falls under the GNU LIBRARY GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE.
