.TH gl_write 3 "2 Aug 1997" "Svgalib (>= 1.2.11)" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
gl_write, gl_writen \- write a text string

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <vgagl.h>

.BI "void gl_write(int " x ", int " y ", char *" s );
.br
.BI "void gl_writen(int " x ", int " y ", int " n " ,char *" s );

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gl_write
writes the zero terminated string
.I s
to position
.RI ( x ", " y )
using the currently selected font.

.B gl_writen
works similarly, but writes exactly
.I n
characters, thus allowing to use the character 0.

The kind of text draw operation is set with
.BR gl_setwritemode (3).

.B BEWARE!
Prior to the of use of
.BR gl_write "(3) and " gl_writen (3)
you must set a font.

A good default initialization sequence is:

.B    gl_setfont(8, 8, gl_font8x8);
.br
.B    gl_setwritemode(FONT_COMPRESSED + WRITEMODE_OVERWRITE);
.br
.B    gl_setfontcolors(0, vga_white());
.br

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR svgalib.conf (5),
.BR threedkit (7),
.BR testgl (1),
.BR gl_printf (3),
.BR gl_colorfont (3),
.BR gl_expandfont (3),
.BR gl_font8x8 (3),
.BR gl_setfont (3),
.BR gl_setfontcolors (3),
.BR gl_setwritemode (3).

.SH AUTHOR

This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. The
exact source of the referenced demo as well as of the original documentation is
unknown.

It is very likely that both are at least to some extent are due to
Harm Hanemaayer <H.Hanemaayer@inter.nl.net>.

Occasionally this might be wrong. I hereby
asked to be excused by the original author and will happily accept any additions or corrections
to this first version of the svgalib manual.
