.TH keyboard_init 3 "27 July 1997" "Svgalib (>= 1.2.11)" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
keyboard_init, keyboard_init_return_fd \- initialize the keyboard to raw mode
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B "#include <vgakeyboard.h>"

.BI "int keyboard_init(void);
.br
.BI "int keyboard_init_return_fd(void);

.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines initialize the keyboard to raw mode. No ASCII codes are produced, instead
svgalib keeps track of each single keypress or depress.
The
.B return_fd
version returns the file descriptor of the
console device to allow you to do further tricks with it (though it is unclear which).
The other version just returns 0 if successful.
Both return -1 on error.

.BR keyboard_close (3)
returns to normal operation.

When in raw keyboard mode you can no longer use
.BR vga_getch(3)
or 
.BR vga_getkey(3)
but you must use
.BR keyboard_getstate (3)
or
.BR keyboard_keypressed (3).

Depending on the setting of
.BR keyboard_translatekeys (3)
even in raw mode a
.B <Ctrl>-C
will cause a
.BR SIGINT.
In any case svgalib will check for
.BR <Alt>-F1 " - " <Alt>-F10
and perform console switches accordingly.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR libvga.config (5),
.BR keytest (6),
.BR eventtest (6),
.BR keyboard_seteventhandler (3),
.BR keyboard_close (3),
.BR keyboard_update (3),
.BR keyboard_waitforupdate (3),
.BR keyboard_setdefaulteventhandler (3),
.BR keyboard_getstate (3),
.BR keyboard_clearstate (3),
.BR keyboard_translatekeys (3),
.BR keyboard_keypressed (3),
.BR vga_waitevent (3)

.SH AUTHOR

This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. The
exact source of the referenced function as well as of the original documentation is
unknown.

It is very likely that both are at least to some extent are due to
Harm Hanemaayer <H.Hanemaayer@inter.nl.net>.

Occasionally this might be wrong. I hereby
asked to be excused by the original author and will happily accept any additions or corrections
to this first version of the svgalib manual.
