.TH keyboard_translatekeys 3 "29 July 1997" "Svgalib (>= 1.2.11)" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
keyboard_translatekeys \- modify scancode mappings in raw keyboard mode
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B "#include <vgakeyboard.h>"

.BI "void keyboard_translatekeys(int " mask );

.SH DESCRIPTION
This function sets several flags which control how certain scancodes are mapped. At startup
a
.I mask
value of 0 is active.

.I mask
must be a logical or of zero or more of the following
.B #predefined
integers to turn the features listed on:

.TP
.B TRANSLATE_CURSORKEYS
Translate the scancodes of the
.B SCANCODE_CURSORBLOCK*
keys to those of the cursor keys on the number pad, s.t.
.BR keyboard_getstate "(3) and " keyboard_keypressed (3)
report a keypress of the corresponding number pad cursor key and not the one
on the cursor block.
.TP
.B TRANSLATE_DIAGONAL
Translates the scancodes of diagonal cursor keys (keypad 7, 9, 1, 3) to presses of two
of the ordinary up, down, left, right keys. For example, instead of reporting
a press of
.B SCANCODE_CURSORUPRIGHT
.BR keyboard_getstate "(3) and " keyboard_keypressed (3)
report a simultaneous press of
.BR SCANCODE_CURSORUP " and " SCANCODE_CURSORRIGHT .
.TP
.B TRANSLATE_KEYPADENTER
The scancode of the keypad enter key is mapped to that of the ordinary enter key, s.t.
.BR keyboard_getstate "(3) and " keyboard_keypressed (3)
report a press of
.B SCANCODE_ENTER
regardless if keypad enter or ordinary enter is pressed.
.TP
.B DONT_CATCH_CTRLC
Pressing
.B <Ctrl>-C
does
.B not
raise a
.BR SIGINT .
On contrary to the other flags this has also effect when a user defined keyboard event handler
is used. Svgalib will
.BR always " process " <Alt>-F1 " - " <Alt>-F10
and perform console switches accordingly.

.SH BUGS
The
.B TRANSLATE_*
options above do really do simple scancode translations. For example, when
.B TRANSLATE_KEYPADENTER
is active and the user presses both enter and keypad enter. Then, if he releases
one of them (say keypad enter), it's release event will clear the common keyboard state, s.t.
no keypress is reported even though enter is still pressed.

Similarly, if
.B TRANSLATE_DIAGONAL
is active, the user holds cursor upleft (keypad 7) down and then presses and release
cursor up (keypad 8), svgalib will only report a pressed cursor left but the simulated
cursor up will be lost. You can easily try this with the
.BR keytest (6)
demo to make the effect more clear to you.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR libvga.config (5),
.BR keytest (6),
.BR eventtest (6),
.BR keyboard_seteventhandler (3),
.BR keyboard_init (3),
.BR keyboard_init_return_fd (3),
.BR keyboard_close (3),
.BR keyboard_update (3),
.BR keyboard_waitforupdate (3),
.BR keyboard_setdefaulteventhandler (3),
.BR keyboard_getstate (3),
.BR keyboard_clearstate (3),
.BR keyboard_keypressed (3),
.BR vga_waitevent (3)

.SH AUTHOR

This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. The
exact source of the referenced function as well as of the original documentation is
unknown.

It is very likely that both are at least to some extent are due to
Harm Hanemaayer <H.Hanemaayer@inter.nl.net>.

Occasionally this might be wrong. I hereby
asked to be excused by the original author and will happily accept any additions or corrections
to this first version of the svgalib manual.
