.TH mouse_getposition_6d 3 "27 July 1997" "Svgalib (>= 1.2.11)" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
mouse_getposition_6d, mouse_setposition_6d, mouse_setrange_6d \- provide an interface to 3d mice
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B "#include <vgamouse.h>"

.BI "void mouse_getposition_6d(int *" x ", int *" y ", int *" z ", int *" rx
.BI ", int *" ry ", int *" rz );
.br
.BI "void mouse_setposition_6d(int " x ", int " y ", int " z ", int " rx
.BI ", int " ry ", int " rz ", int " dim_mask );
.br
.BI "void mouse_setrange_6d(int " x1 ", int " x2 ", int " y1 ", int " y2 ", int " z1
.BI ", int " z2 ", int " rx1 ", int " rx2 ", int " ry1 ", int " ry2
.BI ", int " rz1 ", int " rz2 ", int " dim_mask );

.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines provide the same function as
.BR mouse_getx (3),
.BR mouse_gety (3),
.BR mouse_setxrange (3),
.BR mouse_setyrange (3),
.BR mouse_setposition "(3), and "
.BR mouse_getx (3),
except that they work in all six dimensions,
x, y, z, and rotations about those axes.

For
.BR mouse_getposition_6d() ", " NULL
pointers may be passed for
any coordinate you don't care to know about.  Those dimensions
will be ignored.

.BR mouse_setposition_6d() " and " mouse_setrange_6d()
take an additional
argument called
.IR dim_mask ,
which should be an logical or of the
following:
.BR MOUSE_XDIM ", " MOUSE_YDIM ", " MOUSE_ZDIM ", " MOUSE_RXDIM ", "
.BR MOUSE_RYDIM ", or " MOUSE_RZDIM .
.BR MOUSE_2DIM ", " MOUSE_3DIM ", " MOUSE_6DIM
can be used as shorthand for the XY, XYZ, or
XYZRxRyRz dimensions.  The position or ranges will only
be set if that dimension is included in
.IR dim_mask .

The 6d mouse routines can be used safely with
.B any
mouse type, including standard 2D mice.

When used with mice that support fewer than six axes, the
other coordinates will always return zero (or whatever value
you set them to).

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR libvga.config (5),
.BR eventtest (6),
.BR mouse_close (3),
.BR mouse_init (3),
.BR mouse_setposition (3),
.BR mouse_getx (3),
.BR mouse_setscale (3),
.BR mouse_setwrap (3),
.BR mouse_setxrange (3),
.BR mouse_update (3),
.BR mouse_waitforupdate (3),
.BR vga_setmousesupport (3),
.BR mouse_seteventhandler (3),
.BR vga_waitevent (3)
.SH AUTHOR

This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. The
exact source of the referenced function as well as of the original documentation is
unknown.

It is very likely that both are at least to some extent are due to
Harm Hanemaayer <H.Hanemaayer@inter.nl.net>.

Occasionally this might be wrong. I hereby
asked to be excused by the original author and will happily accept any additions or corrections
to this first version of the svgalib manual.
