.TH vga_getmousetype 3 "5 July 1998" "Svgalib (>= 1.3.0)" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
mouse_getcaps \- returns the capabilities of the mouse
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B "#include <vgamouse.h>"

.BI "int mouse_getcaps(struct MouseCaps *" caps ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
This fills a structure with information about the capabilities of the mouse
as configured in
.IR /etc/vga/libvga.config .

The return value is 0 on success, -1 on failure. Failure indicates that an
older version of the svgalib library is being used that does not support this
function, and the capabilities should be inferred from the mouse type as
retrieved by the function
.BR vga_getmousetype (3).

.RI "The " MouseCaps " structure contains the following members:"

.PD 0
.TP
.B int key;
.RB "After a successful call of " mouse_getcaps " this should be set to " MOUSE_GOTCAPS "."
The values of this and the other members are undefined in the case of failure.
.TP
.B int buttons;
A bitmask indicating which buttons are supported by the device, composed of
.RB "the constants " MOUSE_LEFTBUTTON ", " MOUSE_MIDDLEBUTTON ", "
.BR MOUSE_RIGHTBUTTON ", " MOUSE_FOURTHBUTTON ", " MOUSE_FIFTHBUTTON ", "
.BR MOUSE_SIXTHBUTTON ", and " MOUSE_RESETBUTTON ". Note that " MOUSE_MIDDLEBUTTON
may be set when using mouse protocols that support a middle button even if there
is no button physically present on the mouse.
.TP
.B int axes;
A bitmask indicating which axes are supported by the device, composed of
.RB "the constants " MOUSE_XDIM ", " MOUSE_YDIM ", " MOUSE_ZDIM ", "
.BR MOUSE_RXDIM ", " MOUSE_RYDIM ", and " MOUSE_RZDIM "."
.TP
.B int info;
A bitmask indicating other information about the mouse. Currently the only
.RB "field defined is " MOUSE_INFO_WHEEL ", which indicates that the mouse"
is a wheel mouse.
.TP
.B int reserved0;
Reserved for future use.
.TP
.B int reserved1;
Reserved for future use.
.PD
.PP

Your application may use this info to perform specific actions (go into a 3d pointer
device mode or make use of a wheel for scrolling for example).

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR libvga.config (5),
.BR mousetest (6),
.BR spin (6),
.BR mouse_close (3),
.BR mouse_getposition_6d (3),
.BR mouse_getx (3),
.BR mouse_init (3),
.BR mouse_setposition (3),
.BR mouse_setscale (3),
.BR mouse_setwrap (3),
.BR mouse_setxrange (3),
.BR mouse_update (3),
.BR mouse_waitforupdate (3),
.BR vga_getmousetype (3)
.BR vga_init (3),
.BR vga_setmousesupport (3),
.BR vga_waitevent (3)

.SH AUTHOR

This manual page was heavily edited by Brion Vibber <brion@pobox.com>
from material on another function edited by Michael Weller
<eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. The exact source of the original
documentation is unknown.

It is very likely that it is at least to some extent due to
Harm Hanemaayer <H.Hanemaayer@inter.nl.net>.

Occasionally this might be wrong. I hereby
ask to be excused by the original author and will happily accept any additions or corrections
to this first version of the svgalib manual.
