.TH mouse_setscale 3 "27 July 1997" "Svgalib (>= 1.2.11)" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
mouse_setscale \- sets a mouse scale factor
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B "#include <vgamouse.h>"

.BI "void mouse_setscale(int " s );

.SH DESCRIPTION
This routine sets the scale factor between the motion
reported by the mouse and the size of one pixel.  The larger
the scale is, the slower the mouse cursor appears to move.
The scale may be set to any non-zero integer.  Negative
scales result in flipped axes.  Currently, there is no
support for scale factors between 0 and 1 which would make
the mouse appear faster than usual.

If this routine is never called,
.RI scale " s"
defaults to 1.
.SH SEE ALSO

.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR libvga.config (5),
.BR eventtest (6),
.BR mouse_init (3),
.BR mouse_close (3),
.BR mouse_getposition_6d (3),
.BR mouse_getx (3),
.BR mouse_setposition (3),
.BR mouse_setwrap (3),
.BR mouse_setxrange (3),
.BR mouse_update (3),
.BR mouse_waitforupdate (3),
.BR vga_setmousesupport (3),
.BR mouse_seteventhandler (3),
.BR vga_waitevent (3)
.SH AUTHOR

This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. The
exact source of the referenced function as well as of the original documentation is
unknown.

It is very likely that both are at least to some extent are due to
Harm Hanemaayer <H.Hanemaayer@inter.nl.net>.

Occasionally this might be wrong. I hereby
asked to be excused by the original author and will happily accept any additions or corrections
to this first version of the svgalib manual.
