.TH mouse_init 3 "27 July 1997" "Svgalib (>= 1.2.11)" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
mouse_init, mouse_init_return_fd \- specifically initialize a mouse
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B "#include <vgamouse.h>"

.BI "int mouse_init(char *" dev ", int " type ", int " samplerate );
.br
.BI "int mouse_init_return_fd(char *" dev ", int " type ", int " samplerate );

.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines can be used to open the mouse manually,
ignoring the mouse types or devices specified in the
config file.

.I dev
is the name of the mouse device
.RI "(defaults to " /dev_mouse ).

.I samplerate
may be one
.BR MOUSE_DEFAULTSAMPLERATE (150)
or any other value. Probably it is in Hz.

.I type
is one of the types which are listed already in
.BR vga_getmousetype (3).

If these routines are used it is not necessary to call
.BR vga_setmousesupport (3),
but it's probably better to not use these and use
.BR vga_setmousesupport (3)
instead.

The
.B return_fd
version returns the file descriptor of the
mouse device to allow you to do further tricks with the mouse (but the filehandle may change
during a VC switch). The other version just returns 0 if successful.
Both return -1 on error.
.SH SEE ALSO

.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR libvga.config (5),
.BR eventtest (6),
.BR mouse_close (3),
.BR mouse_getposition_6d (3),
.BR mouse_getx (3),
.BR mouse_setposition (3),
.BR mouse_setscale (3),
.BR mouse_setwrap (3),
.BR mouse_setxrange (3),
.BR mouse_update (3),
.BR mouse_waitforupdate (3),
.BR vga_setmousesupport (3),
.BR mouse_seteventhandler (3),
.BR vga_waitevent (3)
.SH AUTHOR

This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. The
exact source of the referenced function as well as of the original documentation is
unknown.

It is very likely that both are at least to some extent are due to
Harm Hanemaayer <H.Hanemaayer@inter.nl.net>.

Occasionally this might be wrong. I hereby
asked to be excused by the original author and will happily accept any additions or corrections
to this first version of the svgalib manual.
