.TH mouse_setxrange 3 "27 July 1997" "Svgalib (>= 1.2.11)" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
mouse_setxrange, mouse_setyrange \- define the boundaries for the mouse cursor
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B "#include <vgamouse.h>"

.BI "void mouse_setxrange(int " x1 ", int " x2 );
.br
.BI "void mouse_setyrange(int " y1 ", int " y2 );

.SH DESCRIPTION
These two define the boundaries for mouse cursor.
.IR x1 ", " x2 ", " y1 ", and " y2
are the coordinates of the left, right, bottom,
and top edges of the screen, respectively.

The return values of
.BR mouse_getx (3)
and
.BR mouse_gety (3)
will always stay in these boundaries.

For 3d pointer devices, there is actually another interface. See
.BR mouse_getposition_6d (3).
.SH SEE ALSO

.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR libvga.config (5),
.BR eventtest (6),
.BR mouse_close (3),
.BR mouse_init (3),
.BR mouse_getposition_6d (3),
.BR mouse_setposition (3),
.BR mouse_setscale (3),
.BR mouse_setwrap (3),
.BR mouse_getx (3),
.BR mouse_update (3),
.BR mouse_waitforupdate (3),
.BR vga_setmousesupport (3),
.BR mouse_seteventhandler (3),
.BR vga_waitevent (3)
.SH AUTHOR

This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. The
exact source of the referenced function as well as of the original documentation is
unknown.

It is very likely that both are at least to some extent are due to
Harm Hanemaayer <H.Hanemaayer@inter.nl.net>.

Occasionally this might be wrong. I hereby
asked to be excused by the original author and will happily accept any additions or corrections
to this first version of the svgalib manual.
