.TH vga_getdefaultmode 3 "8 April 1998" "Svgalib 1.3.0" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
vga_getdefaultmode \- returns the default graphics mode number
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B "#include <vga.h>"

.BI "int vga_getdefaultmode(void);"

.SH DESCRIPTION
Returns the default graphics mode number from the
.B SVGALIB_DEFAULT_MODE
environment variable. If undefined, the from the
.B default_mode 
configuration file
option. If that is not available as well, returns 10 (G640x480x256). The
mode value in the environment variable or configuration file can either be a mode number or a mode name. See
.BR vga_setmode (3)
for a list of predefined return values and their meaning. The mode names which can be used
in the environment are those used by
.BR vga_getmodename (3)
and
.BR vga_getmodenumber (3).

Whenever your application has no special need for a given mode you should always try to
honour this setting for consistency among svgalib applications.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR libvga.config (5),
.BR vgatest (6),
.BR vga_hasmode (3),
.BR vga_modeinfo (3),
.BR vga_setmode (3),
.BR vga_getcurrentmode (3),
.BR vga_lastmodenumber (3),
.BR vga_getmodename (3),
.BR vga_getmodenumber (3)

.SH AUTHOR

This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. The
exact source of the referenced function as well as of the original documentation is
unknown.

It is very likely that both are at least to some extent are due to
Harm Hanemaayer <H.Hanemaayer@inter.nl.net>.

Occasionally this might be wrong. I hereby
asked to be excused by the original author and will happily accept any additions or corrections
to this first version of the svgalib manual.
