.TH vga_setchipset 3 "27 July 1997" "Svgalib (>= 1.2.11)" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
vga_setchipset \- force chipset
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B "#include <vga.h>"

.BI "void vga_setchipset(int " chipset );

.SH DESCRIPTION
Force detection of a chipset (when chipset detection fails).
.B vga_setchipset(VGA)
can be useful if the chipset specific
stuff or the SVGA detection stuff gives problems.

However, at first the automatic detection should work well, and if not a specific
chipset can be forced from
.IR /etc/vga/libvga.config .

Because of that,
.BI "void vga_setchipset(int " chipset )
should probably never be used by applications. If used nevertheless, it should be called
directly before
.BR vga_init (3).

As of now the following values are defined for
.IR chipset:
.TP
.B UNDEFINED
This is the default and specifies autodetection.
.TP
.B VGA
A plain VGA card, not that the SVGA must behave like an ordinary SVGA card then which
will probably mean it is in an ordinary (25x80) textmode.
.TP
.B ET4000
Tseng ET4000/ET4000W32(i/p) cards.
.TP
.B CIRRUS
Cirrus Logic GD542x/3x cards.
.TP
.B TVGA8900
Trident TVGA 8900C/9000 (and possibly also 8800CS/8900A/B) cards.
.TP
.B OAK
Oak Technologies OTI-037/67/77/87 cards.
.TP
.B EGA
An ordinary EGA card. The notes about VGA apply.
.TP
.B S3
An S3 base card.
.TP
.B ET3000
Tseng ET3000 cards.
.TP
.B MACH32
A card (from ATI or not) based on the ATI Mach32 chipset.
.TP
.B GVGA6400
A Genoa(?) GVGA6400 card.
.TP
.B ARK
ARK Logic ARK1000PV/2000PV cards.
.TP
.B ATI
An ATI SVGA (VGA Wonder and friends) card. This does not (necessarily) include
the newer cards (usually called Mach something).
.TP
.B ALI
An ALI2301 based card.
.TP
.B MACH64
A card using the ATI Mach64 chipset. Support is not complete.
.TP
.B CHIPS
Chips and Technologies chipsets 65525, 65535, 65546, 65548, 65550, and 65554 (usually in laptops).

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR libvga.config (5),
.BR vgatest (6),
.BR vga_getcurrentchipset (3),
.BR vga_setchipsetandfeatures (3)

.SH AUTHOR

This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. The
exact source of the referenced function as well as of the original documentation is
unknown.

It is very likely that both are at least to some extent are due to
Harm Hanemaayer <H.Hanemaayer@inter.nl.net>.

Occasionally this might be wrong. I hereby
asked to be excused by the original author and will happily accept any additions or corrections
to this first version of the svgalib manual.
