.TH vga_copytoplane 3 "27 July 1997" "Svgalib (>= 1.2.11)" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
vga_copytoplane \- copy linear pixmap to some planes of VGA 16 color mode video memory
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B "#include <vga.h>"

.BI "void vga_copytoplane(unsigned char *" virtual ", int " pitch ", int " voffset ", int "
.IB vpitch ", int " w ", int " h ", int " plane );

.SH DESCRIPTION
Similar to
.BR vga_copytoplanar16 (3),
but copies only a subset of the
four 16-color mode planes
.RI ( plane
should be in the range 0 .. 15). The bits set in
.I plane
select which of the four 16-color mode planes to modify.

Assumes
pixels stored in consecutive bytes ranging from 0 to 15 in
the virtual screen.

Copies part of a linear virtual screen in system memory at
.I *virtual
to VGA 16 mode video memory.
.I pitch
is the logical width of the virtual
screen (in pixels (which are one byte large)),
.I voffset
is the address offset into video memory,
.I vpitch
is the logical scanline width of the screen.
.BI ( w ", " h )
is the size of the area to copy in pixels
.RI ( width
must be multiple of 4).

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR libvga.config (5),
.BR vga_accel (3),
.BR vga_copytoplanar16 (3),
.BR vga_copytoplanar256 (3),
.BR vga_drawscanline (3),
.BR vga_drawscansegment (3),
.BR vga_getmodeinfo (3),
.BR vga_setlogicalwidth (3),
.BR vga_imageblt (3),
.BR vga_setmodeX (3),
.SH AUTHOR

This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. The
exact source of the referenced function as well as of the original documentation is
unknown.

It is very likely that both are at least to some extent are due to
Harm Hanemaayer <H.Hanemaayer@inter.nl.net>.

Occasionally this might be wrong. I hereby
asked to be excused by the original author and will happily accept any additions or corrections
to this first version of the svgalib manual.
