.TH vga_drawline 3 "21 August 1999" "Svgalib (>= 1.2.11)" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
vga_drawline \- draw a line on the screen
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B "#include <vga.h>"

.BI "int vga_drawline(int " x1 ", int " y1 ", int " x2 ", int " y2 );

.SH DESCRIPTION
draws a line from
.BI ( x1 ", " y1 )
to
.BI ( x2 ", " y2 )
on the screen. If you exchange start and end of the line you should not expect the
exactly identical set of pixel be covered by the line.

This function is very inefficient
as is does a bunch
of
.BR vga_drawpixel (3)
calls, you should
consider using 
.BR gl_line (3)
which is very efficient,
or doing direct screen access instead or use
.BR vga_drawscansegment (3)
to handle more than one pixel.

The color drawn is set with
.BR vga_setcolor (3)
or
.BR vga_setrgbcolor (3)
resp.

The function always returns 0 (on which you should probably not really rely).
.SH SEE ALSO

.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR libvga.config (5),
.BR gl_line (3)
.BR vga_clear (3),
.BR vga_setcolor (3),
.BR vga_setrgbcolor (3),
.BR vga_getpixel (3),
.BR vga_drawline (3),
.BR vga_drawscanline (3),
.BR vga_drawscansegment (3),
.BR vga_getscansegment (3)
.SH AUTHOR

This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. The
exact source of the referenced function as well as of the original documentation is
unknown.  This Page was modified by Don Secrest <secrest@uiuc.edu>

It is very likely that both are at least to some extent are due to
Harm Hanemaayer <H.Hanemaayer@inter.nl.net>.

Occasionally this might be wrong. I hereby
asked to be excused by the original author and will happily accept any additions or corrections
to this first version of the svgalib manual.
