.TH vga_setmousesupport 3 "27 July 1997" "Svgalib (>= 1.2.11)" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
vga_setmousesupport \- enable mouse support
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B "#include <vga.h>"

.BI "void vga_setmousesupport(int " stat );

.SH DESCRIPTION
Set mouse support; 0 disables (default), 1 enabled. If
enabled, the mouse is set up for screen resolution after a
mode set and you can use the various
.B mouse_
functions. You can also use
.BR mouse_init (3)
the mouse in more flexibility. However, usually this is not the deal of the application.
The mouse is configured in
.I /etc/vga/libvga.config
and usually the application will just want to use that.

The
.BR mousetest "(6), " eventtest (6) ", and " spin (6)
demos make use of the mouse functions.
.SH SEE ALSO

.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR libvga.config (5),
.BR mousetest (6),
.BR mouse_close (3),
.BR mouse_getposition_6d (3),
.BR mouse_getx (3),
.BR mouse_init (3),
.BR mouse_setposition (3),
.BR mouse_setscale (3),
.BR mouse_setwrap (3),
.BR mouse_setxrange (3),
.BR mouse_update (3),
.BR mouse_waitforupdate (3),
.SH AUTHOR

This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. The
exact source of the referenced function as well as of the original documentation is
unknown.

It is very likely that both are at least to some extent are due to
Harm Hanemaayer <H.Hanemaayer@inter.nl.net>.

Occasionally this might be wrong. I hereby
asked to be excused by the original author and will happily accept any additions or corrections
to this first version of the svgalib manual.
