.TH vga_setpalette 3 "27 July 1997" "Svgalib (>= 1.2.11)" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
vga_setpalette \- set a color in the color lookup table
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B "#include <vga.h>"

.BI "void vga_setpalette(int " index ", int " r ", int " g ", int " b );

.SH DESCRIPTION
Set the current color with index
.I index
to RGB values
.IR r ", " g ", and " b ,
each in
the range 0 - 63. This function is only sensible in 16 or 256 color modes. It selects
which color all
.BI vga_setcolor( index )
drawn pixels will actually refer to.

Note that setting color 0 will modify the background color and that setting any color
in range 0 .. 15 will affect the operation of
.BR vga_setegacolor (3) .

If the
.B VGA_CLUT8
feature is set for the current mode with
.BR vga_ext_set (3)
the
.IR r ", " g ", and " b
values are in the range 0 - 255.

The
.BR vgatest (6)
demo shows the basic use of this function.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR libvga.config (5),
.BR vgatest (6),
.BR vga_ext_set (3),
.BR vga_setpalvec (3),
.BR vga_getpalette (3),
.BR vga_getpalvec (3),
.BR vga_setrgbcolor (3),
.BR vga_setcolor (3),
.BR vga_setegacolor (3)
.SH AUTHOR

This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. The
exact source of the referenced function as well as of the original documentation is
unknown.

It is very likely that both are at least to some extent are due to
Harm Hanemaayer <H.Hanemaayer@inter.nl.net>.

Occasionally this might be wrong. I hereby
asked to be excused by the original author and will happily accept any additions or corrections
to this first version of the svgalib manual.
