.TH vga_gettextfont 3 "27 July 1997" "Svgalib (>= 1.2.11)" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
vga_gettextfont, vga_puttextfont \- get/set the font used in text mode
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B "#include <vga.h>"

.BI "void vga_gettextfont(void *font);"
.br
.BI "void vga_puttextfont(void *font);"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The functions gives access to the buffer where svgalib saves the font used by the kernel.
This is used by the
.BR restorefont "(1), "
.BR savetextmode "(1), and "
.BR textmode "(1)"
utilities to restore a possibly screwed console font.

The font buffer occupies 8192 bytes. However, versions 1.2.13 and later use
a larger buffer internally and the size of the buffers passed to 
.BR vga_gettextfont "(3) and " vga_puttextfont (3)
can be set with
.BR vga_ext_set (3).

The functions give access to the internal buffers of svgalib,
.B not
the font tables of the VGA card. This means that both functions must be called
in graphics mode and a newly set font takes effect only at the next
.BR vga_setmode(TEXT)
call.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR vga_setmode (3),
.BR vga_ext_set (3),
.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR libvga.config (5),
.BR restorefont (1),
.BR restoretextmode (1),
.BR restorepalette (1),
.BR savetextmode (1),
.BR textmode (1),
.BR vga_dumpregs (3),
.BR vga_gettextmoderegs (3),
.BR dumpreg (1)
.SH AUTHOR

This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. The
exact source of the referenced function as well as of the original documentation is
unknown.

It is very likely that both are at least to some extent are due to
Harm Hanemaayer <H.Hanemaayer@inter.nl.net>.

Occasionally this might be wrong. I hereby
asked to be excused by the original author and will happily accept any additions or corrections
to this first version of the svgalib manual.
