.TH vga_getgraphmem 3 "27 July 1997" "Svgalib (>= 1.2.11)" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
vga_getgraphmem \- returns the address of the VGA memory
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B "#include <vga.h>"

.BR "unsigned char *graph_mem;"
/* This declaration is already in vga.h */

.BI "unsigned char *vga_getgraphmem(void);"

.SH DESCRIPTION
returns a pointer to the 64K VGA frame buffer window.
.BR vga_setpage (3),
.BR vga_setreadpage "(3) and "
.BR vga_setwritepage (3)
allow to select which page of the VGA memory shows up at this position.
.BR vga_setlinearaddressing (3)
maps all VGA memory at a consecutive memory area (if the hardware supports it).
In this mode, 
.BI "vga_getgraphmem()"
will return the location of this area too. You can also access the global variable
.BR graph_mem ,
which will also contain this address.

Most demos, esp.
.BR vgatest (6)
show the simple direct use of this function to access screen memory.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgatest (6),
.BR fun (6),
.BR testlinear (6),
.BR vga_setlinearaddressing (3),
.BR vga_claimvideomemory (3),
.BR vga_getmodeinfo (3),
.BR vga_setpage (3),
.BR vga_setreadpage (3),
.BR vga_setwritepage (3),

.SH AUTHOR

This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. The
exact source of the referenced function as well as of the original documentation is
unknown.

It is very likely that both are at least to some extent are due to
Harm Hanemaayer <H.Hanemaayer@inter.nl.net>.

Occasionally this might be wrong. I hereby
asked to be excused by the original author and will happily accept any additions or corrections
to this first version of the svgalib manual.
