.TH vga_setmodeX 3 "27 July 1997" "Svgalib (>= 1.2.11)" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
vga_setmodeX \- try to set Mode X-like memory organization 
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B "#include <vga.h>"

.BI "void vga_setmodeX(void);"

.SH DESCRIPTION
Try to enable Mode X-like memory organization for
256 color modes using up to 256K of memory like 320x200x256
and 640x400x256.

Modes like 320x240x256 etc. are Mode X-like by default.
.BR vga_modeinfo (3)
lists which modes have Mode X memory layout.

A mode X like memory layout means that memory is organized in four pages
.RB ( set_page (3))
and that the top most pixel 0,1,2,3 are the first pixel in pages 0,1,2,3. Pixels
4,5,6,7 are than the second pixels in pages 0,1,2,3.

The other, packed pixel, mode will have pixel 0,1,2,3 as pixel 0,1,2,3 in page 0 and
so on. It will only use the next pages if the size of the first 64K page is exceeded. Most
SVGA 256 color modes work this way.

This is not guaranteed to work. Probably a new mode should be defined
for planar 320x200x256.
.SH SEE ALSO

.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR libvga.config (5),
.BR vgatest (6),
.BR vga_getmodeinfo (3),
.BR vga_setmode (3),
.BR vga_setpage (3),
.SH AUTHOR

This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. The
exact source of the referenced function as well as of the original documentation is
unknown.

It is very likely that both are at least to some extent are due to
Harm Hanemaayer <H.Hanemaayer@inter.nl.net>.

Occasionally this might be wrong. I hereby
asked to be excused by the original author and will happily accept any additions or corrections
to this first version of the svgalib manual.
