.TH vga_getmodename 3 "27 July 1997" "Svgalib (>= 1.2.11)" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
vga_getmodename \- return a name for the given video mode
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B "#include <vga.h>"

.BI "char *vga_getmodename(int " mode );

.SH DESCRIPTION
A pointer to a static memory buffer is returned. Depending on mode it consist of
a capital
.B G
followed by the
.BR "amount of x pixels" ,
followed by a lower case
.BR x , 
followed by the
.BR "amount of y pixels" ,
followed by a lower case
.BR x .
Finally the number of different colors is appended. Here the shortcuts
.BR 32K , 64K , 16M ", and " 16M4
are used for 32768, 65536, and 16777216 are used. The last refers also to
16777216 which are store in 4 bytes (highest address byte unused) for easier
screen access.

For unsupported values
of
.I mode
the empty string "" is returned. In general the string resembles the corresponding
.B #define
for the videomode in
.BR "#include <vga.h>" .

.SH EXAMPLE
.BR vga_getmodename(10) " returns " """G640x480x256""" .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR libvga.config (5),
.BR vgatest (6),
.BR vga_hasmode (3),
.BR vga_modeinfo (3),
.BR vga_setmode (3),
.BR vga_lastmodenumber (3),
.BR vga_getcurrentmode (3),
.BR vga_getdefaultmode (3),
.BR vga_getmodenumber (3)
.SH AUTHOR

This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. The
exact source of the referenced function as well as of the original documentation is
unknown.

It is very likely that both are at least to some extent are due to
Harm Hanemaayer <H.Hanemaayer@inter.nl.net>.

Occasionally this might be wrong. I hereby
asked to be excused by the original author and will happily accept any additions or corrections
to this first version of the svgalib manual.
