.TH vga_getcardinfo 3 "23 June 2001" "Svgalib (>= 1.9.10)" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
vga_getcardinfo \- returns pointer to information about the video card.
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B "#include <vga.h>"

.BI "vga_cardinfo *vga_getcardinfo(void);

.SH DESCRIPTION
The function returns a pointer to a card information structure which is
filled out with details about the video card in use.

.B "#include <vga.h>"
defines
.B vga_cardinfo
as

.B typedef struct {
.br
.B "    " int version;
.br
.B "    " int size;
.br
.B "    " int chipset;
.br
.B "    " int physmem;
.br
.B "    " int physmemsize;
.br
.B "    " int linearmem;
.br
.B } vga_cardinfo;

The fields meaning in detail:

.SS Basic mode details
.TP
.B version
Version of the information structure. Application can use this field to make
sure the data it needs is really there.
.TP
.B size
Size of the cardinfo structure. The structure is malloc()ed, and the program should free 
it when no longer needed.
.TP
.B chipset
Number of the chispet driver used to drive the card. Same list as is used in the 
.B vga_setchipset
function.
.TP
.B physmem
Physical address of the linear memory aperture of the card. This is needed for example for setting
the video overlay of v4l devices.
.TP
.B physmemsize
Amount of physical memory in bytes. (Version >= 0x0200)
.TP
.B linearmem
Virtual address of the linear memory aperture. Please note that currently it is
mapped at vga_init, but in future versions of svgalib this might change.
(Version >= 0x0200)

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR svgalib (7),
.BR libvga.config (5),

.SH AUTHOR

This manual page written by Matan Ziv-Av <matan@svgalib.org>.

