.TH vga_getmousetype 3 "27 July 1997" "Svgalib (>= 1.2.11)" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
vga_getmousetype \- returns the mouse type configured
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B "#include <vga.h>"

.BI "int vga_getmousetype(void);"

.SH DESCRIPTION
This returns the mouse type configered in
.IR /etc/vga/libvga.config .

The return value logically anded with
.B MOUSE_TYPE_MASK
is one of (defined in
.RB ( "#include <vgamouse.h>" ):

.PD 0
.TP
.B MOUSE_NONE
There is no mouse installed. It is good style to check if there is no mouse
available first and then enable mouse support to avoid an svgalib error message if you
try to initialize a non existing mouse.
.B MOUSE_MICROSOFT
A Microsoft compatible mouse (2 buttons) (default).
.TP
.B MOUSE_MOUSESYSTEMS
A MouseSystems compatible mouse (3 buttons).
.TP
.B MOUSE_MMSERIES
A MMSeries compatible mouse.
.TP
.B MOUSE_LOGITECH
An ordinary LogiTech compatible mouse.
.TP
.B MOUSE_BUSMOUSE
A busmouse.
.TP
.B MOUSE_PS2
A PS/2 busmouse.
.TP
.B MOUSE_LOGIMAN
An ordinary LogiTech LogiMan compatible mouse.
.TP
.B MOUSE_GPM
The GPM daemon is used.
.TP
.B MOUSE_SPACEBALL
A 3d SpaceTec Spaceball pointer device.
.TP
.B MOUSE_INTELLIMOUSE
A Microsoft IntelliMouse or Logitech MouseMan+ on serial port.
.TP
.B MOUSE_IMPS2
A Microsoft IntelliMouse or Logitech MouseMan+ on PS/2 port.
.PD
.PP
The return value may be ored with one or more of the following flags

.PD 0
.TP
.B MOUSE_CHG_DTR
change the setting of DTR to force the mouse to a given mode.
.TP
.B MOUSE_DTR_HIGH
set DTR to high instead of setting it to low (default).
.TP
.B MOUSE_CHG_RTS
change the setting of RTS to force the mouse to a given mode.
.TP
.B MOUSE_RTS_HIGH
set RTS to high instead of setting it to low (default).
.PD
.PP

Your application may use this info to perform specific actions (go into a 3d pointer
device mode for example).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR libvga.config (5),
.BR mousetest (6),
.BR spin (6),
.BR mouse_close (3),
.BR mouse_getposition_6d (3),
.BR mouse_getx (3),
.BR mouse_init (3),
.BR mouse_setposition (3),
.BR mouse_setscale (3),
.BR mouse_setwrap (3),
.BR mouse_setxrange (3),
.BR mouse_update (3),
.BR mouse_waitforupdate (3),
.BR vga_init (3),
.BR vga_setmousesupport (3),
.BR vga_waitevent (3)

.SH AUTHOR

This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. The
exact source of the referenced function as well as of the original documentation is
unknown.

It is very likely that both are at least to some extent are due to
Harm Hanemaayer <H.Hanemaayer@inter.nl.net>.

Occasionally this might be wrong. I hereby
asked to be excused by the original author and will happily accept any additions or corrections
to this first version of the svgalib manual.
