.TH vga_setegacolor 3 "27 July 1997" "Svgalib (>= 1.2.11)" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
vga_setegacolor \- set the current color
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B "#include <vga.h>"

.BI "void vga_setegacolor(int " color );

.SH DESCRIPTION
Set the current color to be a color resembling the
.IR color -th
EGA coler. This works regardless of the depth of the current video mode.

The color is used by
.BR vga_drawpixel (3)
and
.BR vga_drawline (3).

Valid values for
.I color
are:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP
.B 0
- black.
.TP
.B 1
- blue.
.TP
.B 2
- green.
.TP
.B 3
- cyan.
.TP
.B 4
- red.
.TP
.B 5
- magenta.
.TP
.B 6
- brown.
.TP
.B 7
- grey.
.TP
.B 8
- dark grey (light black).
.TP
.B 9
- light blue.
.TP
.B 10
- light green.
.TP
.B 11
- light cyan.
.TP
.B 12
- light red.
.TP
.B 13
- light magenta.
.TP
.B 14
- yellow (light brown).
.TP
.B 15
- white (light grey).
.PD
.PP
The
.BR fun "(6) and " vgatest (6)
demos show the basic use of this function.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR libvga.config (5),
.BR fun (6),
.BR vgatest (6),
.BR vga_setcolor (3),
.BR vga_setrgbcolor (3),
.BR vga_drawpixel (3),
.BR vga_drawline (3)
.SH AUTHOR

This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. The
exact source of the referenced function as well as of the original documentation is
unknown.

It is very likely that both are at least to some extent are due to
Harm Hanemaayer <H.Hanemaayer@inter.nl.net>.

Occasionally this might be wrong. I hereby
asked to be excused by the original author and will happily accept any additions or corrections
to this first version of the svgalib manual.
