.TH vga_setpalvec 3 "27 July 1997" "Svgalib (>= 1.2.11)" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
vga_setpalvec \- sets colors in the color lookup table
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B "#include <vga.h>"

.BI "int vga_setpalvec(int " start ", int " num ", int *" pal );

.SH DESCRIPTION
Sets the 
.I num
colors starting with index
.I start
to the RGB values in
.IR *pal ". " *pal " contains "
.BI "3 * " num
integers which are the color values to set from first to last palette entry in
the order red, green, blue (always three consecutive entries
in
.I *pal
built a palette entry.

Each color entry is in range
0 - 63. This function is only sensible in 16 or 256 color modes. It selects
which color all
.BI vga_setcolor( start )
(and 
.IB num " - 1"
following colors)
drawn pixels will actually refer to.

Note that setting color 0 will modify the background color and that setting any color
in range 0 .. 15 will affect the operation of
.BR vga_setegacolor (3) .

If the
.B VGA_CLUT8
feature is set for the current mode with
.BR vga_ext_set (3)
the red, green, and blue values are in the range 0 - 255.

The function returns the value of
.IR num .

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR libvga.config (5),
.BR vgatest (6),
.BR vga_ext_set (3),
.BR vga_setpalette (3),
.BR vga_getpalette (3),
.BR vga_getpalvec (3),
.BR vga_setrgbcolor (3),
.BR vga_setcolor (3),
.BR vga_setegacolor (3)
.SH AUTHOR

This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. The
exact source of the referenced function as well as of the original documentation is
unknown.

It is very likely that both are at least to some extent are due to
Harm Hanemaayer <H.Hanemaayer@inter.nl.net>.

Occasionally this might be wrong. I hereby
asked to be excused by the original author and will happily accept any additions or corrections
to this first version of the svgalib manual.
