.TH vga_setwritepage 3 "27 July 1997" "Svgalib (>= 1.2.11)" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
vga_setwritepage \- set the 64K SVGA page number
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B "#include <vga.h>"

.BI "void vga_setwritepage(int " page );

.SH DESCRIPTION
Usually SVGA cards have more than the 64K memory which suffice for an ordinary VGA.
However, the memory window mapped at
.BR vga_getgraphmem (3)
is only 64K bytes large.
.BR vga_setwritepage()
selects the
.IR page "-th"
64K memory chunk to be visible for writes at position
.BR vga_getgraphmem (3).

.BR vga_setreadpage (3)
allows a different 64K memory chunk to be modified by reads from this memory window. This
is a very useful feature for screen to screen pixmap copies. However, not all cards support
this in all graphics modes. Check
.BR vga_modeinfo (3)
for availability. Esp. as this feature can also not be used when in background mode.

Of course, this function must be used in conjunction with
.BR vga_setreadpage (3)
but may not be used in conjunction with
.BR vga_setpage (3).

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR libvga.config (5),
.BR fun (6),
.BR vgatest (6),
.BR vga_getgraphmem (3),
.BR vga_claimvideomemory (3),
.BR vga_modeinfo (3)
.BR vga_setpage (3),
.BR vga_setreadpage (3),
.BR vga_setlinearaddressing (3)
.SH AUTHOR

This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. The
exact source of the referenced function as well as of the original documentation is
unknown.

It is very likely that both are at least to some extent are due to
Harm Hanemaayer <H.Hanemaayer@inter.nl.net>.

Occasionally this might be wrong. I hereby
asked to be excused by the original author and will happily accept any additions or corrections
to this first version of the svgalib manual.
