.TH bg_test 6 "8 April 1998" "Svgalib 1.3.0" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
bg_test \- test the background mode of svgalib
.SH SYNOPSIS

.BI "bg_test [" linear ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Tests the enhanced support of recent svgalibs to draw while
switched to the background. Draws a small centered white box
then waits until you switch to another vc. Draws some outer
box frame around it
.B while
background, which you can see
when you switch back to it. For obvious reasons, your version
of svgalib must have
.B BACKGROUND
support enabled (which is the
default as of this writing).
When finished, press any key to end
.BR bg_test .

The demo uses a
.B G320x200x256
mode or the one you set with
.BR SVGALIB_DEFAULT_MODE .

If you specify the
.I linear
parameter the demo will use
.BR vgagl (7)
and
.BR vga_setlinearaddressing (3)
to test linear mode in background.

This demo is part of svgalib and can be found in the
.I demos/
subdirectory of the original svgalib distribution. However, it is not installed in the system
by default, s.t. it is unclear where you can find it if your svgalib was installed by some
linux distribution. Even then, when you have the demo on your system, you probably won't have
the sources s.t. it is only of limited use for you.

In case of any such problem, simply get an svgalib distribution from the net. You even
don't need to install it. Just
.B make
in the
.I demos/
subdirecty. As of this writing,
.I svgalib-1.2.12.tar.gz
is the latest version and can be retrieved by ftp from
.IR "sunsite.unc.edu" " at " "/pub/Linux/libs/graphics"
and
.IR "tsx-11.mit.edu" " at " "/pub/linux/sources/libs"
which will most probably be mirrored by a site close to you.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR libvga.config (5),
.BR vga_runinbackground (3),
.BR threed (6),
.BR accel (6),
.BR eventtest (6),
.BR forktest (6),
.BR fun (6),
.BR keytest (6),
.BR mousetest (6),
.BR scrolltest (6),
.BR speedtest (6),
.BR spin (6),
.BR testaccel (6),
.BR testgl (6),
.BR testlinear (6),
.BR vgatest (6),
.BR plane (6),
.BR wrapdemo (6)

.SH AUTHOR

This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. The
exact source of the referenced demo as well as of the original documentation is
unknown.

It is very likely that both are at least to some extent are due to
Harm Hanemaayer <H.Hanemaayer@inter.nl.net>.

Occasionally this might be wrong. I hereby
asked to be excused by the original author and will happily accept any additions or corrections
to this first version of the svgalib manual.
