.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii buildcsr.1
.\" 
.TH BUILDCSR "FEBRUARY 2001" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
buildcsr - builds a cursor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B buildcsr [-p
.I name
.B -b
.I name
.B -m
.I mode
.B -s]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B buildcsr
presents a blank screen with a cursor. One may hold down the left
mouse button and draw the color1 part of the cursor on the
screen. Typing 
.B 2 
on the keyboard will cause color2 to be drawn.  The cursor can be
viewed as a cursor by typing 
.BR n .  
To modify the cursor type
.B o
to go back to the original cursor.  Pixels may be erased by clicking
on them with the right mouse button.  The left mouse button will draw
either color1 or color2, depending on whether
.B 1
or
.B 2
was chosen from the keyboard last.  The current color is displayed at
the bottom of the screen.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP -p
and
.IP -b
followed by name will produce a cursor file with the name
.BR name .
.IP -p
will produce a c language definition of the cursor suitable for
inclusion in a program as a header file.
.IP -b
will produce a binary cursor file which may be read into a user
program at execution time.
.IP -m
mode , a mode number will cause the program to run in mode 
.BR mode .
This will not make a difference in the screen representation of the
cursor, but the cursor itself will be much smaller in high resolution
modes.  Thus, for high resolution it is wise to construct the cursor
using the resolution at which it is intended to be used.  Typing
.B n
will show the cursor as it will look at the resolution of the screen.
If no mode is given using 
.B -m
the mode will be 
.B SVGALIB_DEFAULT_MODE
if that has been defined in an environment variable.  If no default
has been given and no
.B -m
was used, the screen mode will be mode 5, G320x200x256, which is
default for this program.  The hardware cursor will be used if a
hardware cursor exists for the video card in use, otherwise the
software cursor will be used.
.IP -s
option will force the software cursor to be used even if a hardware
cursor exists.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP SVGALIB_DEFAULT_MODE
will be used if it has been defined and 
.B -m
was not given.  If neither of these are in effect the mode will be
mode 5, G320x200x256.
.SH AUTHOR
Don Secrest <secrest@uiuc.edu>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR VGA_CURSOR (3) 
.BR VGA_GETDEFAULTMODE (3)

