.TH joytest 3 "14 April 1998" "Svgalib 1.3.0" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
joytest \- test the svgalib joystick package in text mode
.SH SYNOPSIS

.BI "joytest " number

.SH DESCRIPTION
This demo program tries to open the joystick with the given
.I number
and calibrates it. The user is prompted to press
.B <Return>
after which any state change of the joystick is reported until the program is killed.

This demo is part of svgalib and can be found in the
.I demos/
subdirectory of the original svgalib distribution. However, it is not installed in the system
by default, s.t. it is unclear where you can find it if your svgalib was installed by some
linux distribution. Even then, when you have the demo on your system, you probably won't have
the sources s.t. it is only of limited use for you.

In case of any such problem, simply get an svgalib distribution from the net. You even
don't need to install it. Just
.B make
in the
.I demos/
subdirecty. As of this writing,
.I svgalib-1.3.0.tar.gz
is the latest version and can be retrieved by ftp from
.IR "sunsite.unc.edu" " at " "/pub/Linux/libs/graphics"
and
.IR "tsx-11.mit.edu" " at " "/pub/linux/sources/libs"
which will most probably be mirrored by a site close to you.

.SH CAVEATS
The functions used by this demo are only available in ELF versions of svgalib. Due to backwards
compatibility issues it cannot be used with shared a.out libs.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR libvga.config (5),
.BR threed (6),
.BR accel (6),
.BR bg_test (6),
.BR eventtest (6),
.BR forktest (6),
.BR fun (6),
.BR keytest (6),
.BR scrolltest (6),
.BR speedtest (6),
.BR spin (6),
.BR testaccel (6),
.BR testgl (6),
.BR testlinear (6),
.BR vgatest (6),
.BR plane (6),
.BR wrapdemo (6),
.BR vgatest (6),
.BR mjoytest (6),
.BR joystick_init (3),
.BR joystick_close (3),
.BR joystick_update (3),
.BR joystick_sethandler (3),
.BR joystick_setdefaulthandler (3),
.BR joystick_getnumaxes (3),
.BR joystick_getnumbuttons (3),
.BR joystick_getaxis (3),
.BR joystick_getbutton (3),
.BR joystick_button1 (3),
.BR joystick_getb1 (3),
.BR joystick_x (3),
.BR joystick_getx (3).

.SH AUTHOR

The svgalib joystick handler was mostly done by Daniel Engstr\\"om <daniel.engstrom@riksnett.no>.
Multiple joystick, VC switching support and code to glue it into svgalib by Michael Weller
<eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. Part of the code is based on code from C. Smith and
Vojtech Pavlik.
