.TH keytest 6 "8 April 1998" "Svgalib 1.3.0" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
keytest \- tests the svgalib raw keyboard functions
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B keytest

.SH DESCRIPTION
A program to test the low-level keyboard interface. This uses basic
VGA functionality (or an svga mode you specify). Works only in 256
color modes.

Cursor keys or keypad
.BR <1> ", "
.BR <2> ", "
.BR <3> ", "
.BR <4> ", "
.BR <5> ", "
.BR <6> ", "
.BR <7> ", "
.BR <8> ", and "
.BR <9>
move the cursor.
Keypad
.BR <0> " or " <Enter>
changes color.
.BR <Q> " or " <Ctrl>-C
quits. (autoquit after 60
seconds).

Note that the svgalib diagonal
.BR <7> ", "
.BR <9> ", "
.BR <1> ", and "
.BR <3>
keypad keys
emulation is flawed in that it emulates the vertical/horizontal
keys. If one of these is pressed too, it's release confuses svgalib.

The top pixel line shows a blue pixel for each key which is reported
to be pressed.

You can set a videomode
to use by setting the environment variable
.B SVGALIB_DEFAULT_MODE
to a number (see vgatest
for a list) or a string like G0x1x2 where you replace 0 with desired x
resolution, 1 with the desired y rez, and 2 with the desired number of
colors (2, 16, 256, 32K, 64K, 16M, 16M4). Again, only certain choices are
available, see vgatest for a list.

In case nothing is selected, G320x200x256 is choosen.

This demo is part of svgalib and can be found in the
.I demos/
subdirectory of the original svgalib distribution. However, it is not installed in the system
by default, s.t. it is unclear where you can find it if your svgalib was installed by some
linux distribution. Even then, when you have the demo on your system, you probably won't have
the sources s.t. it is only of limited use for you.

In case of any such problem, simply get an svgalib distribution from the net. You even
don't need to install it. Just
.B make
in the
.I demos/
subdirecty. As of this writing,
.I svgalib-1.2.12.tar.gz
is the latest version and can be retrieved by ftp from
.IR "sunsite.unc.edu" " at " "/pub/Linux/libs/graphics"
and
.IR "tsx-11.mit.edu" " at " "/pub/linux/sources/libs"
which will most probably be mirrored by a site close to you.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR libvga.config (5),
.BR threed (6),
.BR accel (6),
.BR bg_test (6),
.BR eventtest (6),
.BR forktest (6),
.BR fun (6),
.BR mousetest (6),
.BR scrolltest (6),
.BR speedtest (6),
.BR spin (6),
.BR testaccel (6),
.BR testgl (6),
.BR testlinear (6),
.BR vgatest (6),
.BR plane (6),
.BR wrapdemo (6)

.SH AUTHOR

This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. The
exact source of the referenced demo as well as of the original documentation is
unknown.

It is very likely that both are at least to some extent are due to
Harm Hanemaayer <H.Hanemaayer@inter.nl.net>.

Occasionally this might be wrong. I hereby
asked to be excused by the original author and will happily accept any additions or corrections
to this first version of the svgalib manual.
