.TH mach32info 1 "2 Aug 1997" "Svgalib (>= 1.2.11)" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
mach32info \- read out configuration information of a Mach32
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B mach32info {info|force}

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mach32info
prints out almost all the info about your mach32 card from configuration
registers and Mach32 EEPROM. It also measures the Mach32 clocks. A
completely idle system is required when these measurements are being
performed. During these measurements, the video signals will be screwed up
for about 3-4 seconds.

If your monitor does not switch off when getting a video signal it can't
stand (fixed freq. monitors) better switch it off before starting
mach32info. Your computer will beep when it is finished probing.
You can redirect the 'stdout' of
.B mach32info
to some file for viewing the results easier or mailing them.

Do not redirect 'stderr' as you won't hear the beep.

This tool is part of svgalib. Although it's output maybe useful to debug
Xfree86 Mach32 Servers, I am
.B NOT
related to Xfree86!
.B Please do not send me (Michael Weller) any Xfree86 bug reports!
Thanx in advance.

Note that this tool comes
.B without any warranty!
Use it at your
.B own
risk!

.BR Warning ,
this tool does not check for VC changes etc.. Just let it run in
its own virtual console as root and don't try to fool it.
Actually this is due to it not using svgalib at all but simply accessing the
Mach32.

Please report any problems with running
.B mach32info
or with configuring the
.BR svgalib (7)'s
Mach32 driver to Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>.
Include the results from running this test with your report.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B info
print out the configuration information. Without
.B info
.B mach32info
prints a usage message (looking almost like this manpage ;-)).
.TP
.B force
The
.B force
option disables the sanity check that tries to detect the
presence of the mach32 prior to printing the information.

Do not use this option unless you are really,
really sure that you have a Mach32 compatible vga card installed.
.PP
This utility is part of svgalib and can be found in the
.I mach32/
subdirectory of the original svgalib distribution. However, it is not installed
by default, s.t. it is unclear where you can find it if your svgalib was install
by a linux distribution.

In case of any such problem, simply get an svgalib distribution from the net. You
don't need to install it. Just
.B make
in the
.I mach32/
subdirecty. As of this writing,
.I svgalib-1.2.12.tar.gz
is the latest version and can be retrieved by ftp from
.IR "sunsite.unc.edu" " at " "/pub/Linux/libs/graphics"
and
.IR "tsx-11.mit.edu" " at " "/pub/linux/sources/libs"
which will most probably be mirrored by a site close to you.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR svgalib (7),
.BR svgalib.mach32 (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR libvga.config (5).

.SH AUTHOR

This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>.
He also wrote the referenced utility as well as of the original documentation.
