.TH plane 6 "2 Aug 1997" "Svgalib (>= 1.2.11)" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
plane \- draw a 3 dimensional plane
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B plane

.SH DESCRIPTION
A greyscale-shaded rendered-on-the-fly turbo-prop that you can rotate
and scale however you like.

The demo prompts your for a mode to be used and several details. Just
follow the instructions on the screen and make your selections.

Once the program runs you can use the following keys:

.TP
.BR <Q> " and " <A> ", " <Z> " and " <X> ", " <O> " and " <P>
to rotate the plane around the space axes.
.TP
.BR <T> " and " <V> ", " <F> " and " <G> ", " <W> " and " <S>
to move up, down, north, south, east, west. (world view only)
.TP
.B
<Space>
to toggle rendering vs. wire frame.
.TP
.BR <W> " and " <S>
to scale in non-world view compilation -- see plane.h
.TP
.BR <1> " and " <2>
to change rotation increment.
.TP
.BR <3> " through " <9>
to change surface density.
.TP
.BR <R>
to change shading method.
.TP
.BR <C>
to quit the program.
.TP
.BR <I>
to reset the rotation to the startup values.
.PP
This demo is part of svgalib and can be found in the
.I threeDkit/
subdirectory of the original svgalib distribution. However, it is not installed in the system
by default, s.t. it is unclear where you can find it if your svgalib was installed by some
linux distribution. Even then, when you have the demo on your system, you probably won't have
the sources s.t. it is only of limited use for you.

In case of any such problem, simply get an svgalib distribution from the net. You even
don't need to install it. Just
.B make
in the
.I threeDkit/
subdirectory. As of this writing,
.I svgalib-1.2.12.tar.gz
is the latest version and can be retrieved by ftp from
.IR "sunsite.unc.edu" " at " "/pub/Linux/libs/graphics"
and
.IR "tsx-11.mit.edu" " at " "/pub/linux/sources/libs"
which will most probably be mirrored by a site close to you.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR libvga.config (5),
.BR triangle (3),
.BR striangle (3),
.BR wtriangle (3),
.BR swtriangle (3),
.BR trisetcolorlookup (3),
.BR trigetcolorlookup (3),
.BR trisetdrawpoint (3),
.BR threedkit (7),
.BR vgatest (6),
.BR threed (6),
.BR accel (6),
.BR bg_test (6),
.BR eventtest (6),
.BR forktest (6),
.BR fun (6),
.BR keytest (6),
.BR mousetest (6),
.BR scrolltest (6),
.BR speedtest (6),
.BR spin (6),
.BR testaccel (6),
.BR testgl (6),
.BR testlinear (6),
.BR wrapdemo (6)

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. The
demos, the initial documentation and the whole threedkit stuff was done by
Paul Sheer <psheer@icon.co.za>.

Paper mail:
.RS
Paul Sheer
.br
P O BOX 890507
.br
Lyndhurst
.br
Johannesburg 2106
.br
South Africa
.RE

Donations (by check or postal order) will be appreciated and will encourage
further development of this software. However this is strictly on a voluntary
basis where this software falls under the GNU LIBRARY GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE.
