.TH speedtest 6 "29 July 1997" "Svgalib (>= 1.2.11)" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
speedtest \- tests the speed of memory access under svgalib
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B speedtest

.SH DESCRIPTION
Video memory speed tester. Selects the given mode and makes linear
screen accesses. Prints the overall run time of the test and
deduces the speed with which the CPU can transfer data to the cards
memory.

The demo gives a list of modes supported and prompts your for an integer
indentifying the mode to test.

This demo is part of svgalib and can be found in the
.I demos/
subdirectory of the original svgalib distribution. However, it is not installed in the system
by default, s.t. it is unclear where you can find it if your svgalib was installed by some
linux distribution. Even then, when you have the demo on your system, you probably won't have
the sources s.t. it is only of limited use for you.

In case of any such problem, simply get an svgalib distribution from the net. You even
don't need to install it. Just
.B make
in the
.I demos/
subdirecty. As of this writing,
.I svgalib-1.2.12.tar.gz
is the latest version and can be retrieved by ftp from
.IR "sunsite.unc.edu" " at " "/pub/Linux/libs/graphics"
and
.IR "tsx-11.mit.edu" " at " "/pub/linux/sources/libs"
which will most probably be mirrored by a site close to you.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR libvga.config (5),
.BR threed (6),
.BR accel (6),
.BR bg_test (6),
.BR eventtest (6),
.BR forktest (6),
.BR fun (6),
.BR keytest (6),
.BR mousetest (6),
.BR scrolltest (6),
.BR spin (6),
.BR testaccel (6),
.BR testgl (6),
.BR testlinear (6),
.BR vgatest (6),
.BR plane (6),
.BR wrapdemo (6)

.SH AUTHOR

This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. The
exact source of the referenced demo as well as of the original documentation is
unknown.

It is very likely that both are at least to some extent are due to
Harm Hanemaayer <H.Hanemaayer@inter.nl.net>.

Occasionally this might be wrong. I hereby
asked to be excused by the original author and will happily accept any additions or corrections
to this first version of the svgalib manual.
