.TH spin 6 "29 July 1997" "Svgalib (>= 1.2.11)" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
spin \- test a 6-dimension mouse or pointer device with svgalib
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B spin

.SH DESCRIPTION
Another mouse test program.  This is the first svgalib program to
use the 6-dimensional mouse routines.  It draws a wireframe spheroid
on the screen which can be moved left/right, up/down, in/out, or
rotated along the x, y, or z axes.

.B Button bindings are:
.br
.PD 0
.TP
.BR A " - Decrease Sensitivity       (Right Mouse Button)"
.TP
.BR B " - Change color               (Middle Mouse Button)"
.TP
.BR C " - Increase Sensitivity       (Left Mouse Button)"
.TP
.BR D " - Increase Number of Sides"
.TP
.BR E " - Decrease Number of Sides"
.TP
.BR F " - Quit                       (" <Ctrl>-C )
.PD
.P
If you only have a two dimensional mouse with three or fewer buttons
you will only be able to move the mouse in two dimensions
(left/right and in/out) and will not be able to move up/down or
spin the spheroid.
Note: the initial mouse sensitivity is optimised for the Spacetec
series of controllers, which are much more sensitive than the usual
mouse.  Increasing the sensitivity is advised for users of other
types of devices.

The demo works always in mode 320x200x256. It prompts your for an
integer, the number of sides the sphere has (the higher the smoother
looks the spere).

This demo is part of svgalib and can be found in the
.I demos/
subdirectory of the original svgalib distribution. However, it is not installed in the system
by default, s.t. it is unclear where you can find it if your svgalib was installed by some
linux distribution. Even then, when you have the demo on your system, you probably won't have
the sources s.t. it is only of limited use for you.

In case of any such problem, simply get an svgalib distribution from the net. You even
don't need to install it. Just
.B make
in the
.I demos/
subdirecty. As of this writing,
.I svgalib-1.2.12.tar.gz
is the latest version and can be retrieved by ftp from
.IR "sunsite.unc.edu" " at " "/pub/Linux/libs/graphics"
and
.IR "tsx-11.mit.edu" " at " "/pub/linux/sources/libs"
which will most probably be mirrored by a site close to you.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR libvga.config (5),
.BR mouse_setposition_6d (3),
.BR threed (6),
.BR accel (6),
.BR bg_test (6),
.BR eventtest (6),
.BR forktest (6),
.BR fun (6),
.BR keytest (6),
.BR mousetest (6),
.BR scrolltest (6),
.BR speedtest (6),
.BR testaccel (6),
.BR testgl (6),
.BR testlinear (6),
.BR vgatest (6),
.BR plane (6),
.BR wrapdemo (6)

.SH AUTHOR

This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. The
exact source of the referenced demo as well as of the original documentation is
unknown.

It is very likely that both are at least to some extent are due to
Harm Hanemaayer <H.Hanemaayer@inter.nl.net>.

Occasionally this might be wrong. I hereby
asked to be excused by the original author and will happily accept any additions or corrections
to this first version of the svgalib manual.
