.TH convfont 1 "2 Aug 1997" "Svgalib (>= 1.2.11)" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
convfont \- convert font files for svgalib
.SH SYNOPSIS

.BI convfont " fontfile fontheight vgafontfile"

.SH DESCRIPTION
convert the standard format binary fontfile name
.I fontfile
to the codepage format required by
.BR restorefont (1).
The converted font is written to
.IR vgafontfile .

A binary font file of any number of characters up to 256 can be used, although
at least defining the first 128 characters is a good idea. The
.I fontheight
must be in the range
.BR 1 " - " 32 .

The
.I fontfile
file consist of
.I fontheight
bytes stored sequentially (top to bottom) for each character in your
font, starting with the character with code 0.

The format of
.I vgafontfile
is that required by
.BR restorefont (1)
and described there.

This utility is part of svgalib and can be found in the
.I utils/
subdirectory of the original svgalib distribution. However, it is not installed 
by default, s.t. it is unclear where you can find it if your svgalib was install
linux distribution.

In case of any such problem, simply get an svgalib distribution from the net. You
don't need to install it. Just
.B make
in the
.I utils/
subdirecty. As of this writing,
.I svgalib-1.2.12.tar.gz
is the latest version and can be retrieved by ftp from
.IR "sunsite.unc.edu" " at " "/pub/Linux/libs/graphics"
and
.IR "tsx-11.mit.edu" " at " "/pub/linux/sources/libs"
which will most probably be mirrored by a site close to you.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR libvga.config (5),
.BR dumpreg (1),
.BR fix132x43 (1),
.BR restorefont (1),
.BR restorepalette (1),
.BR restoretextmode (1),
.BR runx (1),
.BR savetextmode (1),
.BR setmclk (1),
.BR textmode (1).

.SH AUTHOR

This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. The
exact source of the referenced utility as well as of the original documentation is
unknown.

It is very likely that both are at least to some extent are due to
Harm Hanemaayer <H.Hanemaayer@inter.nl.net>.

Occasionally this might be wrong. I hereby
asked to be excused by the original author and will happily accept any additions or corrections
to this first version of the svgalib manual.
