.TH dumpreg 1 "2 Aug 1997" "Svgalib (>= 1.2.11)" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
dumpreg \- dump the state of the card as the svgalib chipset driver sees it.
.SH SYNOPSIS

.BI dumpreg
.br
.BI "dumpreg < /dev/tty" N

.SH DESCRIPTION
The chipset drivers of svgalib inquire the mode of the graphic card when the application
is started and restore it when the svgalib application quits.
.B dumpreg
prints this information to stdout.

This is useful for debugging or adding modes to a device driver. For example you can
use Xfree86 to setup a given mode timing, then run
.B dumpreg
and use it's stdout to make your chipset driver use exactly this timing.

However, the recent change of svgalib to hunt an own free virtual console does not allow
this, because it will make Xfree86 return to textmode first. You can avoid this by using
the second form where
.I N
is the number of the virtual console on which Xfree86 runs (usually 7) as root.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR libvga.config (5),
.BR vga_dumpregs (3),
.BR convfont (1),
.BR fix132x43 (1),
.BR restorefont (1),
.BR restorepalette (1),
.BR restoretextmode (1),
.BR runx (1),
.BR savetextmode (1),
.BR setmclk (1),
.BR textmode (1).

.SH AUTHOR

This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. The
exact source of the referenced utility as well as of the original documentation is
unknown.

It is very likely that both are at least to some extent are due to
Harm Hanemaayer <H.Hanemaayer@inter.nl.net>.

Occasionally this might be wrong. I hereby
asked to be excused by the original author and will happily accept any additions or corrections
to this first version of the svgalib manual.
