.TH restoretextmode 1 "2 Aug 1997" "Svgalib (>= 1.2.11)" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
restoretextmode \- save or restore the SVGA registers for textmode.
.SH SYNOPSIS

.BI "restoretextmode {-r|-w} " filename

.SH DESCRIPTION
The state of the SVGA is written to or restored from
.IR filename
using the
.BR vga_gettextmoderegs "(3) and "
.BR vga_settextmoderegs (3)
functions.

As of this writing this file is 385 bytes long but this might change with future versions.

Please do not fiddle with the contents of the file except when you know what you do. It
might even result in hardware damage. Because of that, you should think twice to make
this command available to all users on your system.

The purpose of this program is usually to recover from a crashed console due to an
svgalib, Xfree or other program bug. First save the state of the SVGA card when on a
text console. After the crash restore this state. The
.BR savetextmode (1)
and
.BR textmode (1)
script makes this procedure very easy.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "-w " filename
write the SVGA state to the file
.IR filename .
.TP
.BI "-r " filename
restore the SVGA state from the file
.IR filename .
.SH SEE ALSO

.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR libvga.config (5),
.BR vga_gettextmoderegs (3),
.BR vga_settextmoderegs (3),
.BR dumpreg (1),
.BR convfont (1),
.BR fix132x43 (1),
.BR restorefont (1),
.BR restorepalette (1),
.BR runx (1),
.BR savetextmode (1),
.BR setmclk (1),
.BR textmode (1).
.SH AUTHOR

This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. The
exact source of the referenced utility as well as of the original documentation is
unknown.

It is very likely that both are at least to some extent are due to
Harm Hanemaayer <H.Hanemaayer@inter.nl.net>.

Occasionally this might be wrong. I hereby
asked to be excused by the original author and will happily accept any additions or corrections
to this first version of the svgalib manual.
