.TH runx 1 "2 Aug 1997" "Svgalib (>= 1.2.11)" "Svgalib User Manual"
.SH NAME
runx \- try to overcome problems of Xfree96 restoring textmode using svgalib.
.SH SYNOPSIS

.BI runx

.SH DESCRIPTION
If XFree86 corrupts your textmode font, try putting
.BR restorefont (1)
in your path and use the shell script
.B runx
to run X.
.B runx
saves the VGA font data in
.IR /tmp/fontdata ,
and restores it when you exit X.

The
.B runx
script actually is:

.RS
.B #!/bin/sh
.br
.B echo Saving font in /tmp/fontdata
.br
.B restorefont -w /tmp/fontdata
.br
.B startx
.br
.B echo Restoring font from /tmp/fontdata
.br
.B restorefont -r /tmp/fontdata
.RE

Note that this doesn't help with syncing problems.

A more rigorous alternative is to run the
.BR savetextmode (1)
script before running X, and
.BR textmode (1)
after. This will restore the textmode registers and the VGA palette in addition to the VGA font.

Assuming that
.BR savetextmode (1)
and
.BR textmode (1)
are in your
.BR PATH
the
.B runx
script would then look like:

.RS
.B #!/bin/sh
.br
.B echo Saving SVGA state
.br
.B savetextmode
.br
.B startx
.br
.B echo restoring SVGA state
.br
.B textmode
.RE

.PP
This utility is part of svgalib and can be found in the
.I utils/
subdirectory of the original svgalib distribution. However, it is not installed
by default, s.t. it is unclear where you can find it if your svgalib was install
by a linux distribution.

However, this is no big deal as it was printed out above already ;-).

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR svgalib (7),
.BR vgagl (7),
.BR libvga.config (5),
.BR convfont (1),
.BR dumpreg (1),
.BR restorefont (1),
.BR restorepalette (1),
.BR restoretextmode (1),
.BR fix132x43 (1),
.BR savetextmode (1),
.BR setmclk (1),
.BR textmode (1).

.SH AUTHOR

This manual page was edited by Michael Weller <eowmob@exp-math.uni-essen.de>. The
exact source of the referenced utility as well as of the original documentation is
unknown.

It is very likely that both are at least to some extent are due to
Harm Hanemaayer <H.Hanemaayer@inter.nl.net>.

Occasionally this might be wrong. I hereby
asked to be excused by the original author and will happily accept any additions or corrections
to this first version of the svgalib manual.
